(  dramatic theme playing  )
CHASE:
Attention Sigma-17 crew.
We are now entering the last
quadrant on our patrol.
BLADES:
Finally.
I can't wait to get back
on Cybertron again.
All this flying makes me cranky.
So, what's your excuse
on the ground?
I think it's beautiful
out here.
So mysterious and quiet.
( alarms blaring )
Mostly.
That's the emergency channel.
Blades,
patch the message through.
MAN ( on radio ):
Damage...
( beeping )
Can't...
Need help...
We've lost contact.
Call HQ.
This patrol
just became a rescue mission.
( computer beeping )
Cybertron isn't responding.
We must be too far
out of communications range.
BOULDER:
I might be able
to boost the signal manually.
I'd have to go outside the ship.
No time.
Chase, follow the coordinates
of that distress call,
max velocity.
Affirmative, Heatwave.
( electronic beeping )
( engines igniting )
(  heroic theme playing  )
Looks like
we might be too late.
Chase, stay here
and keep trying Cybertron HQ
till you get through.
Blades, bring your medi-kit
for survivors.
Boulder and I
will stabilize their ship.
CHASE:
Heatwave. Our radar is detecting
a strange object nearby.
And getting nearer.
HEATWAVE:
It'll have to wait.
We've got a job to do.
Rescue Bots,
power to the rescue.
(  dramatic theme playing  )
( loud wailing )
( hisses )
Aah!
Energon eater!
Run!
( roars )
CODY:
Oh, come on.
You can't stop the story there.
What happened next?
♪  A routine patrol
With four bots in stasis  ♪
♪  Years later awoke
In the strangest of places  ♪
♪  Earth was their home now
And in addition  ♪
♪  Optimus Prime
Gave them this mission  ♪
♪  Learn from the humans
Serve and protect  ♪
♪  Live in their world
Earn their respect  ♪
♪  A family of heroes
Will be your allies  ♪
♪  To others remain
Robots in disguise  ♪
♪  Rescue Bots  ♪
♪  Roll to the Rescue  ♪
♪  Humans in need  ♪
♪  Heroes indeed  ♪
♪  Rescue bots  ♪
♪  Roll to the rescue  ♪
♪  With Cody to guide them
And show them the way  ♪
♪  Rescue bots
Will be saving the day  ♪
♪  Rescue bots  ♪
♪  Roll to the rescue  ♪
HEATWAVE:
So there we were, in space,
the Energon Eater so close I
could feel its stinking breath.
(  suspenseful theme playing  )
What happened?
You were there, Blades.
I'm invested
in the story.
Oh, boy.
HEATWAVE:
Back to the ship! Hurry!
I never knew
Energon Eaters were real.
I've heard the stories,
but no one's ever seen one.
Or maybe they just
haven't lived to tell about it.
( roaring )
( hisses )
You two make a run for it.
I'll hold this thing off.
No, Heatwave!
You can't!
( roaring )
CHASE:
Quickly! Inside!
Thanks for the save, Chase.
Now let's get out of here.
The max velocity drive
requires more time to charge.
Initiating cloaking shield.
( roars )
You think we lost it?
I've heard once an Energon
Eater gets your scent,
it never stops hunting you.
( whimpers )
It is said the creatures
can smell flowing Energon.
So any Bot that
crosses their path is dinner.
( Eater bellows )
Hold on to something!
( all grunting )
Our ship can't take
many more hits like that.
How long until the velocity
drive is ready, Chase?
( loud thud )
( all grunting )
At this rate of attack,
too long.
Ah. Can't we hide
our smell somehow?
A gas cloud?
Lots of blankets?
Stasis. If we freeze ourselves
in the emergency pods,
our Energon will be solid,
not flowing.
That thing
won't be able to scent us.
But our ship runs
on flowing Energon too.
We'd have to shut it down.
Then how will we get home?
I'll program the Sigma
to restart
when it gets
a priority Prime message.
Cybertron will send one
as soon as we miss our check-in.
Less talking.
More freezing!
( loud thud, roaring )
CHASE:
Heatwave.
We have not yet answered
that ship's distress call.
Rescue Bots exist
to provide aid,
no matter how dangerous
the circumstances.
We won't be able to do anything
if that Energon Eater gets us.
(  suspenseful theme playing  )
Into the stasis pods, now!
Chase! That's an order!
( ship powers down )
( sniffing )
( roars )
HEATWAVE:
And the next thing we knew,
our craft was headed to Earth.
If Optimus hadn't called us,
we would have drifted in space
forever, ever, ever, ever...
Forever.
Whoa.
Best story night ever, guys.
I didn't know space
had vampires.
Nor did I.
What are vampires?
They're creatures that live
by sucking your blood.
Uh...Energon.
I know about those.
They're called mosquitoes.
Uh, not exactly,
Boulder.
Ooh, I've seen vampires
on TV.
Energon Eaters
are way more scary.
They don't
brood handsomely.
So, what happened to the other
ship? The one that needed help?
We left it behind.
The one mission
we did not accomplish.
Some days I find it hard
to call myself a Rescue Bot.
( communicator beeping )
CHIEF ( on communicator ):
Emergency, Team.
The river's flooding, and the
area has to be evacuated now.
Cody, I'll need your eyes
in the Command Center.
On my way, Dad.
HEATWAVE:
Rescue Bots, roll to the rescue.
( siren wailing )
(  tense theme playing  )
Help!
A little bit lower!
BLADES:
I can't carry
that many people inside.
How are we supposed
to choose who to save?
We don't have to.
We can carpool.
What are you doing?
Come back! Over here!
All citizens
without gills and/or fins
must evacuate this area
Okay, folks, the river's rising
and there's not much time.
We'll secure your houses.
Get to City Hall
and take only what you need.
( crowd clamoring )
(  heroic theme playing  )
Get in,
and don't forget to buckle up.
( relieved murmuring )
( panicked screams )
Unh! Help!
Quick!
Is anybody near the falls?
Mr. Levy's
about to go over!
I got this.
Let's move, Heatwave.
HEATWAVE:
Oh, you mean we got this?
Doy. You're my sidekick.
HEATWAVE:
Your side will be
the second place I kick.
(  dramatic theme playing  )
( grunting )
( groaning )
All right, gotcha.
Bet you're not used to being
the one getting caught, huh?
Heh!
Ah, just come on.
Help! Help me!
HEATWAVE:
I got this. Cody,
tell my sidekick I'm sorry.
Sorry about-- Whoa!
( rumbling )
( grunts )
( grunting )
( groans )
Ohh!
(  dramatic theme playing  )
( grunts )
( Heatwave transforms )
Mrs. Neederlander?
( meows )
( sighs ):
That was too close.
All right, team. We need
to set up a new water break.
Most of town's flooded.
Let's start cleaning up.
Hey, guys.
I just heard from the mayor.
All the townsfolk
are safe and accounted for.
Finally,
a little good news.
Hit the showers, team.
No thanks, Dad. I don't want to
see any more water for awhile.
You better
get used to it.
It'll take us weeks
to clean up after that flood.
And...a lot of rebuilding.
( sighs ):
It is unthinkable.
We have failed
our first mission on Earth.
What are you
talking about?
Didn't you hear Cody?
We saved everyone.
This is
high-five time!
No one?
But we were unable
to stop the river
from flooding the town.
We can't control nature, Chase.
And our job isn't over yet.
It might take us some time
to get the town back to normal,
but we won't give up
on our mission.
CHASE:
I repeat, Rescue Force Sigma-17
to damaged transport ship,
do you copy?
Do you copy,
transport ship?
Damaged transport ship,
do you copy?
Uh, Chase?
What are you doing?
Attending
to unfinished business.
Please respond. Over.
You're trying to contact that
ship you guys couldn't save.
I have never forgiven myself
for abandoning them in need.
Chase, you had to.
The Energon Vampire
probably already got them,
and it would've eaten you too.
Perhaps you are right.
It seems I must learn to live
with my failure as a Rescue Bot.
MAN ( on radio ):
Damage...
Can't... Need help...
No way.
That's the same message
from your story.
Those aboard the ship
must still be alive
and in need of rescue.
CHASE:
We must return to space
immediately, Heatwave.
Hold on.
You expect me to believe
that damaged ship's
been in danger all this time?
That's kind of
a long emergency.
Maybe the ship's crew
went into stasis, like we did.
Then Chase's message
woke them up.
Exactly. This is our chance to
return and finish our mission.
What about the mission
Optimus gave us here?
We may be the only ones to ever
hear this message, Heatwave.
My spark insists
I must attempt to help.
Whatever the consequence.
No, Chase. And that's an order!
Wait, Heatwave!
I don't want him to go either.
But we have to let Chase
do what he believes in.
It's part of why
he's such a great Rescue Bot.
( sighs )
Fine.
We'll cover for you here.
But be careful.
You'll need backup.
I'm going too.
Uh, if that's okay, Heatwave.
What? Oh!
No way. Not leaving.
But definitely rooting for you.
Graham and I need to make
a few modifications to the ship
before we go.
This time,
we'll be prepared.
GRAHAM:
Remember, Boulder,
as soon as your ship's
in deep space,
turn on Doc's
odor-blocking shield.
Hey, can we get some of that
technology for Kade's feet?
My feet don't smell.
Much.
Thanks, Graham.
If that Energon Vampire's
still out there,
at least it won't be able
to catch our scent.
Goodbye, everyone.
Sir, it has been an honor
serving with you.
One I plan to continue.
Be careful, and come back soon.
That's an order, Chase.
(  heroic theme playing  )
CHIEF: Take care!
CODY: Good luck, guys!
Aw, we'll miss you!
You guys got this!
I'll visit Leafy for you!
Bye Chase! Bye Boulder!
Make us proud.
(  playful theme playing  )
BLADES:
Oh, come on.
You call that
a tap-dancing cat?
I've seen squirrels
with better rhythm.
( clears throat )
Hey, Dad, what's up?
It's time for me
to go out on patrol.
Blades, would you mind
filling in as my police partner?
You mean it?
We'll get donuts together.
Oh, and tell inside jokes
and exchange stories
about our toughest cases.
We might even enforce the law.
BLADES:
Uh, wait, Chief?
Am I the good cop
or the bad cop?
We're police, not cops.
And we're both good.
Follow that car!
BLADES:
I'm so excited!
My first pursuit!
(  imitating siren  )
Uh, Blades?
What are you doing?
Oh, I don't have a siren,
so I'm making one.
(  imitating siren  )
Why don't we try this
in stealth mode?
And I'm gonna need you
to fly lower and faster.
BLADES:
Lower?
But there are trees down there.
Just weave
your way through them.
Now I know where Dani
gets her stern voice from.
I am definitely
the good cop.
Hey, Kade, can I borrow Heatwave
for a ride to the airfield?
N-O. He won't even
drive me to Hayley's.
It's Graham's turn with him.
( metal creaking )
Just hold her still, buddy.
Uh, er, Heatwave.
( grunts )
Here, let me help you
with that.
( grunts )
Oops.
Uh...
Maybe I should start on my
Gremski Tech homework instead.
( grunts )
( loud smash )
I can help with that too.
Uh, that's okay, Heatwave.
I'm filling in for Boulder.
This is what he does, right?
Well, yes, but...
( sighs )
You can read me the equations
as I put them on the board.
( groans )
Um, squiggly sign, X,
upside down two, triangle...
This is supposed to make sense?
( groans )
CHIEF:
Cody? It's time for dinner.
I know they're too far to see.
But I miss Chase and Boulder.
Me too, son.
Me too.
(  dramatic theme playing  )
We should be nearing the
coordinates of the damaged ship.
I will check the visual.
More space wrecks?
It seems our rescue services
are desperately needed.
Lowering odor-blocking shield
for deployment.
( creature wails )
(  dramatic theme playing  )
Hello? Anybody here?
BOULDER:
Hello?
This is the Rescue Bots.
We are here to assist.
I am Chase. If you are
in need of help, please respond.
We are not selling anything.
Chase. Look at this.
It's the captain's log.
"No one responded
to our distress call.
The ship
has malfunctioned beyond repair.
All my crew escaped
in survival pods.
I am taking what cargo I can
and abandoning this vessel.
End log."
But the time stamp
on this entry shows
it was made before
we received the ship's
original emergency call.
Long before.
How could anybody
have contacted us
if no one is aboard?
MAN ( on radio ):
Damage...
Can't...
Need help...
The message.
Where is it coming from?
I'm not sure.
This computer
shouldn't even have power.
( energy crackling )
Chase. Look.
Cody's Energon Vampire.
BOULDER:
It's using the stored Energon
in its tail
to power up
the ship's computer.
The creature is the one
sending those distress calls.
And I flew us
into its trap.
( grunting )
Guess we're not the only ones
here to finish a job.
I could almost respect
the vampire for that.
Were it not diabolical,
lawless, and about to eat us.
This time
it won't get a chance.
BOTH:
Power up and energize!
(  tense theme playing  )
( roars )
Eat our stardust.
( both grunting )
( roars )
Powering up odor shield
and setting a course
for Griffin Rock.
That's odd. The ship is not
responding to my commands.
The vampire sucked the Energon
out of our power core.
( electrical pulsing )
There's no way to activate
the ship's shields or go home.
( both grunt )
Perhaps one of the wrecks
outside has Energon we can use.
I don't think so.
The vampire probably lured those
ships here to feed on them.
The only Energon around
is inside that creature.
Then that is what we'll use.
We'd have to catch
that thing first, and it's fast.
Thanks to Chief, I am excellent
at high-speed pursuits.
Cover me.
You are under arrest
for Energon theft
and general unpleasantness.
( roars )
(  heroic theme playing  )
( grunting )
It appears Cody was incorrect.
Energon Vampires are much
more persistent than mosquitoes.
Chase! Transform!
( engine revving )
( roars )
Hope this works. Otherwise,
we're stuck here forever.
I thought you enjoyed space.
Not enough to change my address.
( power crackling )
( roars )
BOULDER: Yes!
CHASE: Outstanding!
( powering up )
Once our ship's powered up,
I'll patch up the damage.
We'll have just enough
Energon to get home.
The question that remains is,
what do we do with Sparky?
( roars )
I think that's a question
for Optimus Prime.
Then I believe we can declare
this mission accomplished.
(  triumphant theme playing  )
( ship door opens )
Welcome home!
Finally!
Oh, we missed you!
Good to see you, bud.
What happened? Did you help
the people who sent the message?
Did you see
another Energon Vampire?
See it? We caught it.
Pictures,
or it didn't happen.
Aah! It happened! It happened!
But how?
You visited Optimus?
That is a tale
for story night.
In the meantime,
it is good to be home.
( chuckles ):
And we're glad
to have you back.
Really glad.
You have no idea.
Could not do it
without you, bud.
I hate being a cop,
good or bad.
Does that homework stuff
actually make sense to you?
Guess this mission will
keep you busy for a long time.
(  dramatic theme playing  )